---
layout: post
title: catching.
date: 2025-01-25
description: on infinity and chain-breaking.
tags: parenthood mystery infinity water beach
---
Sometimes  
I am tired like the interstate is tired  
All the same signs and truck stops and fat fast food in a forever bad dream  
And the excitement of being on an adventure gives way to the tedium of meaningless mile markers  
And everything takes longer than I want  
But goes by faster than I want  
Somewhere to be but not there  
And not here  
And not soon  
Hot in the window in the Sun  
And no way to escape  
but turning, which I cannot do  
And the anemic air conditioner loses  
To reality.

Sometimes  
I am peace like the seashore is peace  
Deep breath, night  
Air cool now  
Sand warm from the now gone day  
True healing infinity  
Is there before me  
Forever sky and horizon and waves  
Balance struck  
Promise kept  
What problem can be a problem here? But

Sometimes  
The fear and anger and guilt and shame in me,  
The things I'd been given as a child but told not to share  
Because what would people think and who would believe it?  
The things I made myself  
Thinking that would make me more like them,  
They feel like infinity too  
And the gulf beyond the shore loses  
To the bottomless one inside me.

Today  
I stand on the front porch with my grandson and we catch raindrops.  
It is too cold to have him outside for long, but we go anyhow because that's what he wants, and what I want is to make him happy and watch the light come on for him as his new mind and new eyes remind me that everything, everything is new and magic like he is new and magic.

Holding that perfect boy as he catches pieces of sky, in each drop a bespoke ocean, in his perfect tiny hands, asking  
What is _not_ infinite?

What is not infinite, when you do not stand at the edge watching but instead jump in, brand new, beatific, reach out and catch the infinity and hold it and delight and go again?

Sometimes  
I am shown  
And see  
And know  
And am free.
