---
layout: post
title: diving.
date: 2025-02-25
description: on dreams and time.
tags: beach love forever
---
Driving. Late. Far from home.  
Supposed to be someplace else.

Two kids, not experiencing youth as a joyride  
The way that old people remember it and sell it  
And begrudge it  
But as a long hallway of locked doors.

I tell her  
I think our dreams are secrets  
Like words you say once and say wrong and get made fun of  
For mispronouncing  
So you set them aside in favor of roundabout acceptable synonyms.

She says all dreams are secrets  
Until you do something about them.

What if _this_ is a dream? What would you do?

We pull over to steal an irresponsible lucid moment  
Walking along the Atlantic.  
Time’s Arrow  
Suspended in midflight.

Nobody’s here.  
Too early. Too cold.  
Not even enough footprints for a postcard in a Christian bookstore.

We see a singular rag and bone beachcomber.  
Grey beard and green sweatshirt  
White rolled up Prufrock pants  
And a cap folded in half in his back pocket  
Like Springsteen’s on the cover of Born in the U.S.A.

Something about the warmth, the depth  
Of his dark eyes makes us think he’s seen us somewhere before  
Makes us welcome  
Makes him officiant.

We take off our shoes like Moses  
And leave them with our plans  
In the sand  
And step into the sea.

The horizon calls. Pulls.  
Curved like space  
Curved like the way that promises end up keeping themselves  
Curved like love  
That knows and cannot lose its own.

We dive deep. Full immersion.  
A vocabulary of absolution  
Like a native tongue forgotten  
In an attempt to assimilate into a foreign land  
Where they only speak separation.

We remember now.  
We remember dreams  
Can’t be crushed  
Only compressed  
And pressure  
Makes heat  
Makes fire  
Makes life.

Let them press.  
Let the diamond density of our dreams compress down into a single infinity  
And explode out in a Big Bang beginning  
And carry us back to the shore  
Gasping and laughing  
Hand in hand  
At the reckless inevitable forever of it all.

There are lots of footprints now.  
We make out the impressions of our grandchildren’s grandchildren  
And ten thousand more  
Like laugh lines on the face  
Of the loving Earth.
